# RUISNet
RUISNet: Realistic Ultrasound Image Synthesis Based on Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model to Facilitate Image Segmentation

Ultrasound (US) imaging is extensively employed in clinical diagnostic examinations. The training of new sonographers and deep learning-based ultrasound image analysis algorithms usually require large amounts of data. However, the acquisition and annotation of large-scale ultrasound image datasets is not easy, particularly for diseases with low prevalence. To mitigate this issue, ultrasound image synthesis has emerged as a potential solution. Nevertheless, conventional synthesized ultrasound images often display blurred structures and exhibit low image quality. so how to effectively generate real US images becomes a real need that needs to be solved. To solve these issues, this work proposes an image synthesis framework based on the denoising diffusion probabilistic model. Our main contributions include (1) designing an ultrasound medical image generation framework with image-mask pairs based on the diffusion model; (2) devising a CEResblock in the encoder part to introduce semantic information into the denoising network and employ classifier-free guidance to improve the quality of the generated image; (3) the proposed US image synthesis method is highly generalizable, and we conducted extensive experiments on three masked breast ultrasound image datasets and one X-ray image dataset to validate our method. Compared with the state-of-the-art methods, our method achieves the best performance in terms of fidelity and semantic alignment. In addition, we also experimentally verify that the high-quality synthetic images obtained in this work can significantly improve the image segmentation performance. 

We will release the source code and related data after the paper is published. Many thanks!
